then it came to pass at the end of two
then it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream and
full years that Pharaoh had a dream and
full years that Pharaoh had a dream and behold he stood by the river suddenly
behold he stood by the river suddenly
behold he stood by the river suddenly there came out out of the river seven
there came out out of the river seven
there came out out of the river seven cows fine-looking and fat and they fed
cows fine-looking and fat and they fed
cows fine-looking and fat and they fed in the meadow then to hold seven other
in the meadow then to hold seven other
in the meadow then to hold seven other cows came up after them out of the river
cows came up after them out of the river
cows came up after them out of the river ugly and gaunt and stood by the other
ugly and gaunt and stood by the other
ugly and gaunt and stood by the other cows on the bank of the river and the
cows on the bank of the river and the
cows on the bank of the river and the ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven
ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven
ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven fine-looking and fat cattle so Pharaoh
fine-looking and fat cattle so Pharaoh
fine-looking and fat cattle so Pharaoh awoke he slept and dreamed a second time
awoke he slept and dreamed a second time
awoke he slept and dreamed a second time and suddenly seven heads of grain came
and suddenly seven heads of grain came
and suddenly seven heads of grain came up on one stalk plump and good then
up on one stalk plump and good then
up on one stalk plump and good then behold seven thin heads blighted by the
behold seven thin heads blighted by the
behold seven thin heads blighted by the east wind sprang up after them and the
east wind sprang up after them and the
east wind sprang up after them and the seventh in heads devoured the seven
seventh in heads devoured the seven
seventh in heads devoured the seven plump and full heads so Pharaoh awoke
plump and full heads so Pharaoh awoke
plump and full heads so Pharaoh awoke and indeed it was a dream
now it came to pass in the morning that
now it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled and he sent and
his spirit was troubled and he sent and
his spirit was troubled and he sent and called for all the magician's of Egypt
called for all the magician's of Egypt
called for all the magician's of Egypt and all its wise men and Pharaoh told
and all its wise men and Pharaoh told
and all its wise men and Pharaoh told them his dreams but there was no one who
them his dreams but there was no one who
them his dreams but there was no one who could interpret them for Pharaoh then
could interpret them for Pharaoh then
could interpret them for Pharaoh then the chief Butler spoke to Pharaoh
the chief Butler spoke to Pharaoh
the chief Butler spoke to Pharaoh I remember my faults this day when
I remember my faults this day when
I remember my faults this day when Pharaoh was angry with his servants and
Pharaoh was angry with his servants and
Pharaoh was angry with his servants and put me in custody in the house of the
put me in custody in the house of the
put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard both me and the
captain of the guard both me and the
captain of the guard both me and the chief Baker we each had a dream in one
chief Baker we each had a dream in one
chief Baker we each had a dream in one night he and I each of us dreamed
night he and I each of us dreamed
night he and I each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his
according to the interpretation of his
according to the interpretation of his own dream now there was a young Hebrew
own dream now there was a young Hebrew
own dream now there was a young Hebrew man with us there a servant of the
man with us there a servant of the
man with us there a servant of the captain of the guard and we told him and
captain of the guard and we told him and
captain of the guard and we told him and he interpreted our dreams for us to each
he interpreted our dreams for us to each
he interpreted our dreams for us to each man he interpreted according to his own
man he interpreted according to his own
man he interpreted according to his own dream and it came to pass just as he
dream and it came to pass just as he
dream and it came to pass just as he interpreted for us so it happened he
interpreted for us so it happened he
interpreted for us so it happened he restored me to my office and
he hanged him then Pharaohs sentient
he hanged him then Pharaohs sentient cold Joseph and they brought him quickly
cold Joseph and they brought him quickly
cold Joseph and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon and he shaved changed
out of the dungeon and he shaved changed
out of the dungeon and he shaved changed his clothing and came to Pharaoh and
his clothing and came to Pharaoh and
his clothing and came to Pharaoh and Pharaoh said to Joseph I had had a dream
Pharaoh said to Joseph I had had a dream
Pharaoh said to Joseph I had had a dream and there is no one who can interpret it
and there is no one who can interpret it
and there is no one who can interpret it but I have heard it said of you that you
but I have heard it said of you that you
but I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream to interpret it
can understand a dream to interpret it
can understand a dream to interpret it so Joseph answered Pharaoh saying it is
so Joseph answered Pharaoh saying it is
so Joseph answered Pharaoh saying it is not in me God will give Pharaoh an
not in me God will give Pharaoh an
not in me God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace behold in my dream I
answer of peace behold in my dream I
answer of peace behold in my dream I stood on the bank of the river suddenly
stood on the bank of the river suddenly
stood on the bank of the river suddenly seven cows came up out of the river
seven cows came up out of the river
seven cows came up out of the river fine-looking and fat and they fed in the
fine-looking and fat and they fed in the
fine-looking and fat and they fed in the meadow then behold seven other cows came
meadow then behold seven other cows came
meadow then behold seven other cows came up after them poor and very ugly and
up after them poor and very ugly and
up after them poor and very ugly and gaunt such ugliness as I have never seen
gaunt such ugliness as I have never seen
gaunt such ugliness as I have never seen in all the land of Egypt and the gaunt
in all the land of Egypt and the gaunt
in all the land of Egypt and the gaunt and ugly cows ate up the first seven the
and ugly cows ate up the first seven the
and ugly cows ate up the first seven the fat cows when they had eaten them up no
fat cows when they had eaten them up no
fat cows when they had eaten them up no one would have known that they had eaten
one would have known that they had eaten
one would have known that they had eaten them for they were just as ugly as at
them for they were just as ugly as at
them for they were just as ugly as at the beginning so I awoke
the beginning so I awoke
the beginning so I awoke also I saw in my dream and suddenly
also I saw in my dream and suddenly
also I saw in my dream and suddenly seven heads came up on one stock full
seven heads came up on one stock full
seven heads came up on one stock full and good then behold seven heads
and good then behold seven heads
and good then behold seven heads withered thin and blighted by the east
withered thin and blighted by the east
withered thin and blighted by the east wind spring up after them and the thin
wind spring up after them and the thin
wind spring up after them and the thin heads devoured the seven good heads so I
heads devoured the seven good heads so I
heads devoured the seven good heads so I told this to the magicians but there was
told this to the magicians but there was
told this to the magicians but there was no one who could explain it to me the
no one who could explain it to me the
no one who could explain it to me the dreams of Pharaoh are one God has shown
dreams of Pharaoh are one God has shown
dreams of Pharaoh are one God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do the seven
Pharaoh what he is about to do the seven
Pharaoh what he is about to do the seven good cows are seven years and the Seven
good cows are seven years and the Seven
good cows are seven years and the Seven good heads are seven years the dreams
good heads are seven years the dreams
good heads are seven years the dreams are one and the seventh in an ugly cows
are one and the seventh in an ugly cows
are one and the seventh in an ugly cows which came up after them are seven years
which came up after them are seven years
which came up after them are seven years and the Seven empty heads blighted by
and the Seven empty heads blighted by
and the Seven empty heads blighted by the east wind are seven years of famine
the east wind are seven years of famine
the east wind are seven years of famine this is the thing which I have spoken to
this is the thing which I have spoken to
this is the thing which I have spoken to Pharaoh God has shown Pharaoh what he is
Pharaoh God has shown Pharaoh what he is
Pharaoh God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do indeed seven years of great
about to do indeed seven years of great
about to do indeed seven years of great Plenty will come throughout all the land
Plenty will come throughout all the land
Plenty will come throughout all the land of Egypt but after them seven years of
of Egypt but after them seven years of
of Egypt but after them seven years of famine will arise and all the plenty
famine will arise and all the plenty
famine will arise and all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt
will be forgotten in the land of Egypt
will be forgotten in the land of Egypt and the famine will deplete the land so
and the famine will deplete the land so
and the famine will deplete the land so the plenty will not be known in the land
the plenty will not be known in the land
the plenty will not be known in the land because of the famine following for it
because of the famine following for it
because of the famine following for it will be very severe
will be very severe
will be very severe and the dream was repeated to Pharaoh
and the dream was repeated to Pharaoh
and the dream was repeated to Pharaoh twice because the thing is established
twice because the thing is established
twice because the thing is established by God and God will shortly bring it to
by God and God will shortly bring it to
by God and God will shortly bring it to pass now therefore let Pharaoh select a
pass now therefore let Pharaoh select a
pass now therefore let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man and set him over
discerning and wise man and set him over
discerning and wise man and set him over the land of Egypt let Pharaoh do this
the land of Egypt let Pharaoh do this
the land of Egypt let Pharaoh do this and let him appoint officers over the
and let him appoint officers over the
and let him appoint officers over the land to collect one-fifth of the produce
land to collect one-fifth of the produce
land to collect one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt in the seven
of the land of Egypt in the seven
of the land of Egypt in the seven plentiful years and let them gather all
plentiful years and let them gather all
plentiful years and let them gather all the food of those good years that are
the food of those good years that are
the food of those good years that are coming and store up grain under the
coming and store up grain under the
coming and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh and let them keep
authority of Pharaoh and let them keep
authority of Pharaoh and let them keep food in the cities then that food shall
food in the cities then that food shall
food in the cities then that food shall be as a reserve for the land for the
be as a reserve for the land for the
be as a reserve for the land for the seven years of famine which shall be in
seven years of famine which shall be in
seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt that the land may not
the land of Egypt that the land may not
the land of Egypt that the land may not perish during the famine so the advice
perish during the famine so the advice
perish during the famine so the advice was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in
was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in
was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants and Pharaoh
the eyes of all his servants and Pharaoh
the eyes of all his servants and Pharaoh said to his servants can we find such a
said to his servants can we find such a
said to his servants can we find such a one as this a man in whom is the Spirit
one as this a man in whom is the Spirit
one as this a man in whom is the Spirit of God from Pharaoh said to Joseph in as
of God from Pharaoh said to Joseph in as
of God from Pharaoh said to Joseph in as much as God has shown you all this there
much as God has shown you all this there
much as God has shown you all this there is no one as discerning and wise as you
is no one as discerning and wise as you
is no one as discerning and wise as you you shall be over my house and all my
you shall be over my house and all my
you shall be over my house and all my people shall be ruled according to your
people shall be ruled according to your
people shall be ruled according to your word only in regard to the throne will I
word only in regard to the throne will I
word only in regard to the throne will I be greater than you see I have set you
be greater than you see I have set you
be greater than you see I have set you over all the land of Egypt then Pharaoh
over all the land of Egypt then Pharaoh
over all the land of Egypt then Pharaoh took his signet ring off his hand and
took his signet ring off his hand and
took his signet ring off his hand and put it on Joseph's hand and he clothed
put it on Joseph's hand and he clothed
put it on Joseph's hand and he clothed them in garments of fine linen and put a
them in garments of fine linen and put a
them in garments of fine linen and put a gold chain around his neck and he had
gold chain around his neck and he had
gold chain around his neck and he had him ride in the second chariot which
him ride in the second chariot which
him ride in the second chariot which and they cried out before him
so he set him over all the land of Egypt
so he set him over all the land of Egypt Pharaoh also said to Joseph
Pharaoh also said to Joseph
Pharaoh also said to Joseph I am Pharaoh and without your consent no
I am Pharaoh and without your consent no
I am Pharaoh and without your consent no man may lift his hand or foot in all the
man may lift his hand or foot in all the
man may lift his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt
and Pharaoh called Joseph's name zefnep
and Pharaoh called Joseph's name zefnep Payoneer and he gave him as a wife
Payoneer and he gave him as a wife
Payoneer and he gave him as a wife Asenath the daughter of Potiphar a
Asenath the daughter of Potiphar a
Asenath the daughter of Potiphar a priest of our
priest of our
priest of our so Joseph went out over all the land of
so Joseph went out over all the land of
so Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt Joseph was thirty years old when
Egypt Joseph was thirty years old when
Egypt Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt
he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt
he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt and Joseph went out from the presence of
and Joseph went out from the presence of
and Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land
Pharaoh and went throughout all the land
Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt now in the seven plentiful
of Egypt now in the seven plentiful
of Egypt now in the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth
years the ground brought forth
years the ground brought forth abundantly so he gathered up all the
abundantly so he gathered up all the
abundantly so he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in
food of the seven years which were in
food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt and laid up the food
the land of Egypt and laid up the food
the land of Egypt and laid up the food in the cities he laid up in every city
in the cities he laid up in every city
in the cities he laid up in every city the food of the fields which surrounded
the food of the fields which surrounded
the food of the fields which surrounded them
them
them Joseph gathered very much grain as the
Joseph gathered very much grain as the
Joseph gathered very much grain as the sand of the sea until he stopped
sand of the sea until he stopped
sand of the sea until he stopped counting for it was immeasurable anta
counting for it was immeasurable anta
counting for it was immeasurable anta Jazze if were born two sons before the
Jazze if were born two sons before the
Jazze if were born two sons before the years of famine came whom Asenath the
years of famine came whom Asenath the
years of famine came whom Asenath the daughter of Potiphar a priest of on 40
Joseph called the name of the firstborn
Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh for God has made me forget all
Manasseh for God has made me forget all
Manasseh for God has made me forget all my toil and all my father's house and
my toil and all my father's house and
my toil and all my father's house and the name of the second he called Ephraim
the name of the second he called Ephraim
the name of the second he called Ephraim for God has caused me to be fruitful in
for God has caused me to be fruitful in
for God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction then the seven
the land of my affliction then the seven
the land of my affliction then the seven years of plenty which were in the land
years of plenty which were in the land
years of plenty which were in the land of Egypt ended and the seven years of
of Egypt ended and the seven years of
of Egypt ended and the seven years of famine began to come as Joseph had said
famine began to come as Joseph had said
famine began to come as Joseph had said the famine was in all lands but in all
the famine was in all lands but in all
the famine was in all lands but in all the land of Egypt there was bread so in
the land of Egypt there was bread so in
the land of Egypt there was bread so in all the land of Egypt was famished the
all the land of Egypt was famished the
all the land of Egypt was famished the people cried to Pharaoh for bread then
people cried to Pharaoh for bread then
people cried to Pharaoh for bread then Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians Gold
Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians Gold
Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians Gold to Joseph whatever he says do you do for
to Joseph whatever he says do you do for
to Joseph whatever he says do you do for famine was over all the face of the
famine was over all the face of the
famine was over all the face of the earth and Joseph opened all the
earth and Joseph opened all the
earth and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians
storehouses and sold to the Egyptians
storehouses and sold to the Egyptians and the famine became severe in the land
and the famine became severe in the land
and the famine became severe in the land of Egypt
of Egypt
of Egypt so all countries came to Joseph in Egypt
so all countries came to Joseph in Egypt
so all countries came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain because the famine was
to buy grain because the famine was
to buy grain because the famine was severe in all lands